# School District Analysis  
Data Analytics + Visualization Certificate, Module 4, Pandas Analysis

# About
This project is based on data from an entire school district in both school demographics and standardized test scores. Multiple questions and lengthy analysis is completed using Pandas dataframes within the Python language. 

# Getting Started / Installation
This project was completed using Jupyter Notebook while calling CSV files to create new dataframes. 
To run the program, you must import pandas as pd.
To read the CSV files into Pandas format, you must import from pathlib import Path

# Analysis
I took the data from the two CSV files and compiled many dataframes to observe the trends of how well students perform in relation to how much money the district spends on their school. The students' performance was only focused on standardized test results in Math and Reading scores.

# Summary
The district summary reveals that more students pass Reading versus Math, but overall the district does not have a great combined passing rate at 65%. The school summary shows there are big disparities between the schools in the number of students passing both Math and Reading. It also indicates there is a major difference in the number of students that attend each school. The school with the highest percent of students passing both Math and Reading is Cabrera High School, the school with the lowest percent of students passing both Math and Reading is Rodriguez High School. When assessing the Math and Reading scores by grade, the scores were similar through 9th to 12th when looking at each individual school. Scores by school spending reveals the schools that spent the least amount of money per student, actually had higher Math and Reading scores and in turn better passing percentages. When considering the students' outcomes based on the size of their school, the small and medium schools performed much better in both Math and Reading scores. Finally, the school type indicated that students attending a charter school had a much more likely chance of having passing scores versus attending a district school, especially in Math.

# Contributing
dvasquez - Learning Assistant, helped rectify an error in .value_counts that I couldn't resolve by googling. He shpowed me the difference between .unique and .unique() for my data type and helped me correct my answer for the count of unique schools: 

Liang, (lyam) on Slack, the Learning Assistant, helped me re-configure my code to be able to do math to get the budget per student. I was stuck with using the groupby function without any aggregation function on the end. He helped me develop the .max()["budget"] portion of my code.

Monali, monalipatel19 on Slack, the Learning Assistant, helped me go back and re-calculate my School Types code to find the types per school. originally, I had just counted them as in an array and when I got to making my dataframe, that obviously wouldn't work. She helped me switch from just a school type count to --school_type = school_data.set_index(["school_name"])["type"] --

Classmate, Tahseen, shared a change she had to make to her pd.cut code when creating the bins for the Scores by School Spending dataframe. She says she was helped via tutor with this as well. This was discussed in our own zoom study group we created. The data being input for had to come from a higher up data reference. I used "per_school_capita" as the data marker for the "Per Student Budget" column.

# References
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
